Comparing OS Platforms: Ubuntu, CentOS, and RedHat (RHEL)

Ubuntu is an operating system based on the Debian Linux kernel. There is a
server version of Ubuntu that is also free and open source, but Ubuntu is
well known as an entry-level home platform for beginning users of Linux,
called Ubuntu Desktop. It uses its own custom user interface that is unique
compared to Microsoft Windows of Mac OS.

In relation to servers, RedHat usually refers to RedHat Enterprise Linux, a
commercially available server distribution based on Fedora. Fedora is an
operating system built from a Unix-like Linux kernel that is open-source and
community-based, and commonly know through the free desktop home version,
Fedora Workstation.

CentOS is a downstream, free version of the RHEL enterprise server. Some
aspects of CentOS are to be referred, then, to the upstream version (RHEL)
when working with updates, fixes, and features.

There are a few reasons I would choose to use Ubuntu Server. First, Ubuntu
is a complete package, unlike CentOS, derived from the upstream RHEL.
Because of my level of experience in dealing with server operating systems,
I only wish to deal with one platform and one source for information about
the server I'm running. In my research, I often have seen the reference to
issues and topics about CentOS that need to be accessed on the RedHat site.
This isn't the case with Ubuntu; it isn't derived from an enterprise version
I also need to worry about. I don't wish to have to poke around in RHEL to
get information to assist me with CentOS. 

Also, Ubuntu offers more online sources of information by taking more of a
'community' approach, and it has been easier to find many support topics,
including installation guide, user manual, forums, and a additional 'Ask'
portion of the website.

Finally, Server 16.04 LTS, the latest server version, is supported for five
years, with regularly scheduled 6-month updates. I like the predictability
of the update schedule, as opposed to CentOS, without a set schedule and
without knowing when to anticipate an update.

